first attempt was a lepotato, using the ir reciever, that when a remote button was pressed, it would, via the gopi pins, control a servo, that would turn 45 degrees, with an armature, thus pushing the button.
items used
lepotato
sg90 servo

Requirements
LePotato board
SG90 servo
Jumper wires
External power supply (optional, for high-current servos)
Breadboard (optional, for easier connections)

Steps to Control the SG90 Servo
Connect the Servo to the LePotato:
The SG90 servo has three wires:
Brown/Black wire: Ground (GND) → Connect to a GND pin on the LePotato.
Red wire: Power (VCC) → Connect to a 5V pin on the LePotato.
Yellow/Orange wire: Signal → Connect to a GPIO pin on the LePotato (e.g., GPIO18).
Note: If your servo requires more current than the LePotato can provide, use an external 5V power supply for the servo and connect the grounds together.

Install Required Software:
The LePotato runs Linux, so you can use Python to control the GPIO pins.
Install the libgpiod library or RPi.GPIO-compatible libraries for GPIO control:

bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install python3-gpiozero

Install libgpiod and its Python bindings:
bash
sudo apt install python3-libgpiod


Write a Python Script to Control the Servo:
final script is servomanual.py



Which Pin Should You Use?
For controlling an SG90 servo, you need a PWM-capable GPIO pin. From the table:
GPIOAO_6 supports PWM_AO_B and PWM_F, making it a good candidate for PWM control.
GPIOX_12 and GPIOX_13 are not explicitly marked as PWM-capable, so they are less suitable.

Wiring
Servo VCC (Red wire): Connect to 5V (Pin 2 or 4).
Servo GND (Brown/Black wire): Connect to GND (Pin 6 or 9).
Servo Signal (Yellow/Orange wire): Connect to GPIOAO_6 (Physical Pin 12).



final script is servomanual.py
How It Works
Start at 0 Degrees:
The script sets the servo to 0 degrees by sending a pulse width of 500 µs (0.0005 s).
Rotate to 45 Degrees:
The script sets the servo to 45 degrees by sending a pulse width of 1050 µs (0.00105 s).
Wait:
The script waits for 1 second at each position to allow the servo to settle.
Exit:
The script releases the GPIO line and exits.


Run the script with sudo python3 servomanual.py





Final result:
Not enough mechanical leverage to press the front rotary button down. Armature would twist, even when using 1/2 inch wood
